Login screen
==========

There is one login screen for your organisation's CiviHR. Each staff member should have their individual username and password. The login screen can be tailored to your organisation by adding a logo and a welcome message. The screen also contains a link to request a new password. Staff members who want a CiviHR account can click a link on the login screen and fill in a small form to request access to your CiviHR Self Service Portal.

### Logging in and out of CiviHR

.. raw :: html

<p style="border: 2px solid #ebebeb; min-width: 100%; border-bottom: 0 none; height: 501px;"><iframe style="border: 0 none; min-width: 100%" src="https://www.iorad.com/player/73505/Logging-in-and-out-of-CiviHR?src=iframe" width="100%" height="500px" allowfullscreen="true"></iframe></p><p style="display: none;"><p style="display: none;">The first step is to navigate to your site. Once on the welcome page,&amp;nbsp;click on the&amp;nbsp;&lt;span class=&quot;&quot;&gt;&lt;i&gt;&lt;b&gt;Username or e-mail&amp;nbsp;&lt;/b&gt;&lt;/i&gt;box.&lt;/span&gt;</p><p style="display: none;">Type in your&amp;nbsp;&lt;span class=&quot;&quot;&gt;Username or e-mail address.&amp;nbsp;&lt;/span&gt;</p><p style="display: none;">Click on the&amp;nbsp;&lt;span class=&quot;&quot;&gt;&lt;i&gt;&lt;b&gt;Password &lt;/b&gt;&lt;/i&gt;box&lt;/span&gt;</p><p style="display: none;">Type in your p&lt;span class=&quot;&quot;&gt;assword&lt;i&gt;&lt;b&gt; &lt;/b&gt;&lt;/i&gt;&lt;/span&gt;</p><p style="display: none;">Click &lt;span class=&quot;&quot;&gt;&lt;i&gt;&lt;b&gt;Log in&lt;/b&gt;&lt;/i&gt;&lt;/span&gt;</p><p style="display: none;">You&apos;re in!&lt;br&gt;&lt;br&gt;When you want to &lt;b&gt;log out&lt;/b&gt;, Click or hover on your name in the top right hand corner of the screen.&amp;nbsp;</p><p style="display: none;">Last step: click &lt;span class=&quot;&quot;&gt;&lt;i&gt;&lt;b&gt;Log Out&lt;/b&gt;&lt;/i&gt; and you&apos;re done!&lt;/span&gt;</p></p>

### Resetting your password

.. raw :: html

<p style="border: 2px solid #ebebeb; min-width: 100%; border-bottom: 0 none; height: 501px;"><iframe style="border: 0 none; min-width: 100%" src="https://www.iorad.com/player/73509/Resetting-your-password?src=iframe" width="100%" height="500px" allowfullscreen="true"></iframe></p><p style="display: none;"><p style="display: none;">From the homepage of your CiviHR site, click the&amp;nbsp;&lt;span class=&quot;&quot;&gt;&lt;i&gt;&lt;b&gt;Forgot password? &lt;/b&gt;&lt;/i&gt;link.&amp;nbsp;&lt;/span&gt;</p><p style="display: none;">A new box will appear underneath. Click the&amp;nbsp;&lt;span class=&quot;&quot;&gt;&lt;i&gt;&lt;b&gt;Email&lt;/b&gt;&lt;/i&gt; box here.&amp;nbsp;&lt;/span&gt;</p><p style="display: none;">Type your work email address into the box.&amp;nbsp;</p><p style="display: none;">Then click the&amp;nbsp;&lt;span class=&quot;&quot;&gt;&lt;i&gt;&lt;b&gt;Send me my details &lt;/b&gt;&lt;/i&gt;button.&amp;nbsp;&lt;/span&gt;</p><p style="display: none;">A green confirmation message will appear at the top of your screen.&amp;nbsp;&lt;br&gt;&lt;br&gt;The email will contain a link so you can set a new password. Make sure it&apos;s secure by entering at least 12 characters, along with some special characters.&amp;nbsp;</p></p>
