How HR Admin records or reviews leave requests 
==========

CiviHR Admin users have access to the SSP and the admin menu.  Admin users can view and act on all leave requests, not just those assigned to them as the leave approver. 

CiviHR admin users can book time off on behalf of other staff in three different ways:

1. Admin side: from Leave Dashboard
2. Admin side: from Absence tab of a staff
3. Self Service Portal: from Manager Leave

There are five key actions that admin users can perform when reviewing a request:

- Respond: view the request in more detail. Add comments when necessary
- Approve: approve the leave request if no other detail is needed
- Reject:  deny the request. For example, if the request clashes with other staff member leave
- Cancel: cancel the request, even after it has been approved
- Delete: delete the request. Useful for rectifying mistakes and duplicate entries, etc. This action cannot be undone - all record of the leave will be removed from the system.

To manage their own leave, Admin users apply for leave through the  SSP  My Leave page.  

### CiviHR Admin: Recording & Reviewing Leave


<p style="border: 2px solid #ebebeb; min-width: 100%; border-bottom: 0 none; height: 501px;"><iframe style="border: 0 none; min-width: 100%" src="//www.iorad.com/player/88877/CiviHR-Admin--Recording---Reviewing-Leave?src=iframe" width="100%" height="500px" allowfullscreen="true"></iframe></p><p style="display: none;"><p style="display: none;">CiviHR Admin users have the option to record and monitor leave through the SSP and the Admin menu.&amp;nbsp;&lt;br&gt;&lt;br&gt;To manage leave in the SSP, select&amp;nbsp;&lt;b&gt;&lt;i&gt;Manager Leave.&lt;/i&gt;&lt;/b&gt;&lt;br&gt;</p><p style="display: none;">Click&amp;nbsp;&lt;span&gt;&lt;i&gt;&lt;b&gt;All&amp;nbsp;&lt;/b&gt;&lt;/i&gt;to view leave requests from staff across the organisation.&amp;nbsp;&lt;/span&gt;&lt;br&gt;</p><p style="display: none;">Click the dots to action a request.</p><p style="display: none;">Select the relevant action.&amp;nbsp;&lt;br&gt;&lt;br&gt;</p><p style="display: none;">Leave can also be managed through the admin portal. To switch to the admin portal, Click &lt;span class=&quot;&quot;&gt;&lt;i&gt;&lt;b&gt;CiviHR admin.&lt;/b&gt;&lt;/i&gt;&lt;/span&gt;</p><p style="display: none;">Click &lt;span class=&quot;&quot;&gt;&lt;i&gt;&lt;b&gt;Leave and Absences.&lt;/b&gt;&lt;/i&gt;&lt;/span&gt;</p><p style="display: none;">To record a new absence, click &lt;span class=&quot;&quot;&gt;&lt;i&gt;&lt;b&gt;     Record New Absence.&lt;/b&gt;&lt;/i&gt;&lt;/span&gt;</p><p style="display: none;">Choose the relevant leave type.</p><p style="display: none;">Search for the staff member by typing their name in the search field.&amp;nbsp;</p><p style="display: none;">Click&amp;nbsp;the relevant name when it appears.&amp;nbsp;</p><p style="display: none;">This brings up the leave request popup. Enter the necessary details.</p><p style="display: none;">Click &lt;span class=&quot;&quot;&gt;&lt;i&gt;&lt;b&gt;Comments&amp;nbsp;&lt;/b&gt;&lt;/i&gt;&lt;b&gt;&lt;/b&gt;to add any comments to the request.&amp;nbsp;&lt;/span&gt;</p><p style="display: none;">Click &lt;span class=&quot;&quot;&gt;&lt;i&gt;&lt;b&gt;            Add comment&amp;nbsp;&lt;/b&gt;&lt;/i&gt;to upload.&amp;nbsp;&lt;/span&gt;</p><p style="display: none;">Check the status of the request. All leave requests entered by admin are automatically&amp;nbsp;&lt;b&gt;&lt;i&gt;&lt;/i&gt;&lt;/b&gt;approved, but there is the option to select &apos;More info required&apos; if needed.&amp;nbsp;</p><p style="display: none;">Select &lt;span class=&quot;&quot;&gt;&lt;b&gt;Approved&amp;nbsp;&lt;/b&gt;or &lt;b&gt;More Information Required.&amp;nbsp;&lt;/b&gt;&lt;/span&gt;</p><p style="display: none;">Click &lt;span class=&quot;&quot;&gt;&lt;i&gt;&lt;b&gt;Save&amp;nbsp;&lt;/b&gt;&lt;/i&gt;when done.&amp;nbsp;&lt;/span&gt;</p><p style="display: none;">To check the saved request, go to&amp;nbsp;&lt;span class=&quot;&quot;&gt;&lt;i&gt;&lt;b&gt;Contacts&amp;nbsp;&lt;/b&gt;&lt;/i&gt;search field.&amp;nbsp;&lt;/span&gt;</p><p style="display: none;">Type the name and press enter.&amp;nbsp;</p><p style="display: none;">This brings up the staff member record. Go to the&amp;nbsp;&lt;span class=&quot;&quot;&gt;&lt;i&gt;&lt;b&gt;Absence&amp;nbsp;&lt;/b&gt;&lt;/i&gt;tab.&lt;/span&gt;</p><p style="display: none;">Click &lt;span class=&quot;&quot;&gt;&lt;i&gt;&lt;b&gt;                                        Approved Requests.&lt;br&gt;&lt;br&gt;&amp;nbsp;&lt;/b&gt;&lt;/i&gt;If More Information Required was selected, it will appear in the Open Requests accordion.&amp;nbsp;&lt;/span&gt;</p><p style="display: none;">The recently added request will appear.&amp;nbsp;</p><p style="display: none;">Click the dots to edit, cancel or delete the request. Select the relevant action.&amp;nbsp;</p><p style="display: none;">Absences can also be recorded from each staff member&apos;s contact record. &lt;br&gt;&lt;br&gt;To record a new absence, click &lt;span class=&quot;&quot;&gt;&lt;i&gt;&lt;b&gt;     Record New Absence.&lt;/b&gt;&lt;/i&gt;&lt;/span&gt;</p><p style="display: none;">Choose the relevant leave type. &amp;nbsp;</p><p style="display: none;">The leave request popup appears. Fill in the details and save as before.&amp;nbsp;</p><p style="display: none;">To manage and review leave across the organisation, Click the&amp;nbsp;&lt;span class=&quot;&quot;&gt;&lt;i&gt;&lt;b&gt;Leave and Absences&amp;nbsp;&lt;/b&gt;&lt;/i&gt;tab in the admin menu.&lt;/span&gt;</p><p style="display: none;">Click &lt;span class=&quot;&quot;&gt;&lt;i&gt;&lt;b&gt;All&amp;nbsp;&lt;/b&gt;&lt;/i&gt;to display all requests.&lt;/span&gt;</p><p style="display: none;">Click the dots to action each request.</p><p style="display: none;">Click the relevant action.</p><p style="display: none;">Click &lt;span class=&quot;&quot;&gt;&lt;i&gt;&lt;b&gt;Leave Type&amp;nbsp;&lt;/b&gt;&lt;/i&gt;to display results by different leave type.&lt;/span&gt;</p><p style="display: none;">Select an&amp;nbsp;option. Selecting Leave Type displays all types of leave.&amp;nbsp;</p><p style="display: none;">Click &lt;span class=&quot;&quot;&gt;&lt;i&gt;&lt;b&gt;Calendar&amp;nbsp;&lt;/b&gt;&lt;/i&gt; to display leave requests in the calendar view.&lt;/span&gt;</p><p style="display: none;">Choose the months you want to view.</p><p style="display: none;">Filter results to see your approvals, those without approvers or all requests.&amp;nbsp;&lt;br&gt;&lt;br&gt;</p><p style="display: none;">Select the relevant response.&amp;nbsp;</p><p style="display: none;">This displays the leave requests per month for all members of staff.</p><p style="display: none;">Use the filters along the top to further refine the calendar display.</p><p style="display: none;">Click &lt;span class=&quot;&quot;&gt;&lt;i&gt;&lt;b&gt;Leave Balance&amp;nbsp;&lt;/b&gt;&lt;/i&gt;to view leave entitlement and current usage rates for all members of staff.&amp;nbsp;&lt;/span&gt;</p><p style="display: none;">Use the filter to display specific leave types.&amp;nbsp;</p><p style="display: none;">Select&amp;nbsp;&lt;b&gt;&lt;i&gt;&lt;/i&gt;&lt;/b&gt;&lt;i&gt;&lt;/i&gt;the relevant filter.&amp;nbsp;</p><p style="display: none;">Using the filter displays the data for that specific leave type.&amp;nbsp;</p></p>