How staff applies for leave
==========

All users can access their leave details through the ‘My Leave’ page in the Self Service Portal (SSP). CiviHR Staff users are only able to apply for time off for themselves and do not have access to other staff member’s leave requests. 

### Requesting Leave in CiviHR

<p style="border: 2px solid #ebebeb; min-width: 100%; border-bottom: 0 none; height: 501px;"><iframe style="border: 0 none; min-width: 100%" src="//www.iorad.com/player/88335/Requesting-Leave-in-CiviHR?src=iframe" width="100%" height="500px" allowfullscreen="true"></iframe></p><p style="display: none;"><p style="display: none;">&lt;span&gt;All users can request leave through the Self Service Portal. To being, click on&amp;nbsp;&lt;/span&gt;&lt;b&gt;My Leave.&lt;/b&gt;&lt;br&gt;</p><p style="display: none;">&lt;span&gt;Clicking on My Leave takes you to the leave summary page. From here you can view your leave balance and request new leave. &lt;br&gt;&lt;br&gt;Click&amp;nbsp;&lt;/span&gt;&lt;b&gt;&lt;i&gt;Record New Absence&amp;nbsp;&lt;/i&gt;&lt;/b&gt;&lt;span&gt;to create a new leave request.&amp;nbsp;&lt;/span&gt;</p><p style="display: none;">&lt;span&gt;Select the type of leave you want to request. As a default, CiviHR comes with three types: Leave, Sickness and Overtime. &amp;nbsp;&lt;br&gt;&lt;/span&gt;&lt;br&gt;&lt;br&gt;</p><p style="display: none;">&lt;span&gt;There are multiple leave types to choose from. Select the appropriate option for your request. In this example, we are requesting time off for a holiday, so choose&amp;nbsp;&lt;/span&gt;&lt;b&gt;&lt;i&gt;Annual Leave.&lt;/i&gt;&lt;/b&gt;&lt;br&gt;</p><p style="display: none;">Now set the duration of your leave. Users can choose from&amp;nbsp;&lt;span class=&quot;&quot;&gt;&lt;i&gt;&lt;b&gt;Multiple Days &lt;/b&gt;&lt;/i&gt;or &lt;i&gt;&lt;b&gt;Single Days.&lt;/b&gt;&lt;/i&gt;&lt;/span&gt;</p><p style="display: none;">&lt;p&gt;&lt;span&gt;Set the duration of your leave request by clicking the&lt;b&gt; calendar icon.&lt;/b&gt;&lt;/span&gt;&lt;/p&gt;</p><p style="display: none;">&lt;span&gt;Use the arrow to change the calendar month as needed.&lt;/span&gt;&lt;br&gt;</p><p style="display: none;">&lt;p&gt;&lt;span&gt;Choose from a full day or half day of leave.&amp;nbsp;&lt;/span&gt;&lt;/p&gt;</p><p style="display: none;"></p><p style="display: none;">In this example, we are requesting leave from the 22nd - 29th Dec. Note that this period includes two public holidays.&amp;nbsp;</p><p style="display: none;">&lt;span&gt;Once dates are entered into the fields, leave is automatically calculated. Click&amp;nbsp;&lt;/span&gt;&lt;b&gt;&lt;i&gt;Change&amp;nbsp;&lt;/i&gt;&lt;/b&gt;&lt;span&gt;to view the calculation breakdown.&lt;/span&gt;&lt;br&gt;</p><p style="display: none;">Note that Public Holiday dates and weekends are automatically excluded from the leave total.&lt;br&gt;&lt;br&gt;In this example, &amp;nbsp;the user has only taken 3.5 days of annual leave due to public holidays and weekends appearing within the duration of their leave.&amp;nbsp;</p><p style="display: none;">Click &lt;span class=&quot;&quot;&gt;&lt;i&gt;&lt;b&gt;Comments&amp;nbsp;&lt;/b&gt;&lt;/i&gt;to add additional details to the request.&amp;nbsp;&lt;/span&gt;</p><p style="display: none;">For example, users can use the comments section to ask their manager if they can approve the request, removing the need for a separate email explaining the request.&amp;nbsp;&lt;br&gt;&lt;br&gt;Click&amp;nbsp;&lt;b&gt;&lt;i&gt;Add Comment&amp;nbsp;&lt;/i&gt;&lt;/b&gt;&lt;i&gt;&lt;/i&gt;to upload the request.&amp;nbsp;</p><p style="display: none;">Click &lt;b&gt;&lt;i&gt;Files&amp;nbsp;&lt;/i&gt;&lt;/b&gt;to upload any documents to the request.&amp;nbsp;</p><p style="display: none;">In this example, the user has uploaded emergency contact details for when they are away.&amp;nbsp;</p><p style="display: none;">Once all the information is added. click &lt;span class=&quot;&quot;&gt;&lt;i&gt;&lt;b&gt;Save,&lt;/b&gt;&lt;/i&gt;&lt;/span&gt;</p><p style="display: none;">This brings you back to the &apos;My Leave&apos; summary page. Click &lt;span class=&quot;&quot;&gt;&lt;i&gt;&lt;b&gt;Calendar&lt;/b&gt;&lt;/i&gt;&lt;/span&gt;</p><p style="display: none;">The calendar tab displays leave requests in a calendar view. You can view your new leave request as soon as it has been saved. &lt;br&gt;&lt;br&gt;Click the filter bar to add different months into the display&lt;b&gt;&lt;i&gt;.&lt;/i&gt;&lt;/b&gt;</p><p style="display: none;">Add the relevant month to view your recently submitted request.&amp;nbsp;</p><p style="display: none;">The request appears in the relevant monthly view against the dates of absence.&amp;nbsp;&lt;br&gt;&lt;br&gt;Note that public holidays appear as green, and the half day is denoted by either an AM or PM sign.&amp;nbsp;</p></p>


CiviHR Staff users are also able to monitor the status of their leave requests through the ‘My Leave’ page. They can check leave balances, approved leave and watch any open requests that need more information. Leave can also be cancelled from the leave summary page. 

### Managing Personal Leave Requests in CiviHR

<p style="border: 2px solid #ebebeb; min-width: 100%; border-bottom: 0 none; height: 501px;"><iframe style="border: 0 none; min-width: 100%" src="//www.iorad.com/player/88570/Managing-Leave-in-CiviHR?src=iframe" width="100%" height="500px" allowfullscreen="true"></iframe></p><p style="display: none;"><p style="display: none;">Managing your leave requests in CiviHR is simple. &lt;br&gt;&lt;br&gt;To start, click &lt;b&gt;My Leave&lt;/b&gt;.</p><p style="display: none;">Staff users can keep track of their leave on the leave report page.&amp;nbsp;Click to open each accordion.&lt;br&gt;&lt;br&gt;Click &lt;span&gt;&lt;i&gt;&lt;b&gt;                                        Period Entitlement&amp;nbsp;&lt;/b&gt;&lt;/i&gt;to view a breakdown of your leave entitlement.&amp;nbsp;&lt;/span&gt;</p><p style="display: none;">The left column displays the leave type. In this example, Leave is the only type of absence employees are entitled to.&lt;br&gt;&lt;br&gt;Here, there are 28 days for annual leave, 14 for paternity, 2 days for compassionate leave and 2 for public duties.&amp;nbsp;</p><p style="display: none;">Click &lt;span class=&quot;component&quot;&gt;&lt;i&gt;&lt;b&gt;                                        Public Holidays                  &lt;/b&gt;&lt;/i&gt;&lt;/span&gt;</p><p style="display: none;">This accordion lists all public holiday dates in the system. These are automatically calculated when submitting a leave request so that public holidays are not deducted from the annual leave allocation.&amp;nbsp;</p><p style="display: none;">Click &lt;span class=&quot;component&quot;&gt;&lt;i&gt;&lt;b&gt;                                        Approved Requests                  &lt;/b&gt;&lt;/i&gt;&lt;/span&gt;</p><p style="display: none;">This accordion displays approved leave requests.&amp;nbsp;&lt;br&gt;&lt;br&gt;To view the request, click the dots.&amp;nbsp;</p><p style="display: none;">And click&amp;nbsp;&lt;span class=&quot;&quot;&gt;&lt;i&gt;&lt;b&gt;View.&lt;/b&gt;&lt;/i&gt;&lt;/span&gt;</p><p style="display: none;">This brings up the leave request popup. Click&amp;nbsp;&lt;span class=&quot;&quot;&gt;&lt;i&gt;&lt;b&gt;&times; &lt;/b&gt;to close&lt;b&gt;.&amp;nbsp;&lt;/b&gt;&lt;/i&gt;&lt;/span&gt;</p><p style="display: none;">Click &lt;span class=&quot;&quot;&gt;&lt;i&gt;&lt;b&gt;                                    Open Requests&amp;nbsp;&lt;/b&gt;to &lt;/i&gt;view pending leave requests.&amp;nbsp;&lt;/span&gt;</p><p style="display: none;">Leave requests in this section require action. Check the Status for more info.&lt;br&gt;&lt;br&gt;For this Sick leave request, m&lt;span class=&quot;&quot;&gt;ore information is required.&amp;nbsp;&lt;/span&gt;</p><p style="display: none;">To respond to the request, click the dots.&amp;nbsp;</p><p style="display: none;">Click &lt;span class=&quot;component&quot;&gt;&lt;i&gt;&lt;b&gt;        Respond      &lt;/b&gt;&lt;/i&gt;&lt;/span&gt;</p><p style="display: none;">This brings up the leave popup. In this example, the leave approver has requested the self certification form to be uploaded to the system.&amp;nbsp;</p><p style="display: none;">Click &lt;b&gt;&lt;i&gt;Comments&amp;nbsp;&lt;/i&gt;&lt;/b&gt;&lt;i&gt;&lt;/i&gt; to view any comments from the leave approver.&amp;nbsp;</p><p style="display: none;">Click &lt;b&gt;&lt;i&gt;Files&amp;nbsp;&lt;/i&gt;&lt;/b&gt;&lt;i&gt;&lt;b&gt;&lt;/b&gt;&lt;/i&gt;to upload any relevant documentation to the request. In this example, we have been asked to provide the Self Certification document.&amp;nbsp;&lt;i&gt;&lt;/i&gt;</p><p style="display: none;">After adding a file to the popup, the document will appear here.&amp;nbsp;</p><p style="display: none;">Go back to the&amp;nbsp;&lt;b&gt;Comments&amp;nbsp;&lt;/b&gt;section to respond to the Leave Approver&apos;s request.&amp;nbsp;&lt;br&gt;&lt;br&gt;After typing a response, click &lt;b&gt;&lt;i&gt;Add Comment&amp;nbsp;&lt;/i&gt;&lt;/b&gt;&lt;i&gt;&lt;/i&gt;to upload.</p><p style="display: none;">Then click &lt;span class=&quot;&quot;&gt;&lt;i&gt;&lt;b&gt;Save.&lt;/b&gt;&lt;/i&gt;&lt;/span&gt;</p><p style="display: none;">This takes you back to your leave report page.&lt;br&gt;&lt;br&gt;A notification will be sent to the leave approver with details of your recent action.&amp;nbsp;&lt;br&gt;&lt;br&gt;</p></p>
